books; 
seymeur data structures
horowitz sahni data structures pdf

online documentations: mdn

javascript used to be a scripting language. 
now it is an object oriented programming language. 
we can now write client side as well as server side code. 

client server architecture: 

what is a client and what is a server? 
client is the end user that accesses the website. 

computer (client machine) sends a request to the server machine and receives a response in return. 
client and server both are softwares. the machine which contains the server is called the server machine. 

#find the list of server softwares. 

Three Layer (MVC) Architecture of Applications:

This architecture was used in the 2000s.  
1. presentation layer or view layer. 
technologies include: HTML, CSS, javascript. (react, angular, aura, LWC, vue)
2. service layer or business logic layer. 
technologies include: python, java, golang, Apex, C#, C/C++ etc. 
3. data access layer: connected by Drivers. 
4. database: KDB+, PostGRE, ingres, Sybase, mongoDB, oracle, mySQL, SQL server

all four layers are joined by 'integrations'

Applications are front end applications with backend services. 

npm is used for package management; for setting up the environment 
npx is the package executer. 




npx create-react-app mern-app
npm create vite@latest

what is react?
it is a js library used to build components. 

difference between multi page applications and single page applications? 


Closures in JavaScript are functions that retain access to variables from their containing scope even after the parent function has finished executing. They’re useful for maintaining private data, creating modular code, and implementing callback functions with persistent state.


what are data structures? 
data structures are tools to store, process, retriece data.
data structures can be classical or advanced. 
classical data structures:
operations applied on them: linear (array, stack queue, linkedlist, vector), non-linear(trees, graphs, hashtables), recursion. 
advanced data structures: 
data structures used in java script: 

1) array: 
arrays are internally classes and can hence have predefined methods. 
arrays are contiguous; the elements are separated based on the byte size of the data in cell and every cell 
is stored starting from index 0. 
declarations:
in C arrays are homogeneous but in java script arrays are not homogeneous. 

const cars = ["books", "chocos", "pens"];
console.log(cars.length)
2) set: 

3) map: 


pillars of OOPs: 
in the right order of implementation? abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism. 


concepts of oops: 
class, object, message passing, cohesion, coupling (loose coupling and tight coupling), associations, aggregations etc. 
make a list of all concepts of OOPs. 

Spread syntax "expands" an array into its elements, while rest syntax collects multiple elements and "condenses" them into a single element.

spread operator 
(...) is also known as ellipsis in english. 
spread operators 


rest operator 


we cannot write functions inside classes in java; only methods are allowed
function sit() {} will give an error. 
sit(){} is allowed.

in js constructor is a method that is named constructor
there can only be one constructor in javascript. 
we can never have multiple constructors in java script.
multiple parameters are handled using rest keyword. 


Programming 
Logic 
Design 
Architect 
Plan



Design Principles 
1) KISS: Keep it simple stupid. 
Design Patterns

SOLID principles in detail. 

YAGNI design principle: you arent gonna need it.

DRY: dont repeat yourself.

WET: write everything twice. 

SLAP: single level of abstraction principle. 


Design Patterns: 
general repeatable solution to a commonly occurring problem in software design. 


